# Workflow 
- [File Conversion Path](#File-Conversion-Path)  
- [Preprocessors](#Preprocessors)   
- [Compiler](#Compiler)   
    - [Assembler](#Assembler)   
    - [Linker](#Linker)   
- [Executable](#Executable)   
- [Debug](#Debug)   
- [Tests](#Tests)   
- [Install](#Install) 
- [Other Aspects of Workflow](#Other-Aspects-of-Work-Flow)
    - [Software Configuration Management](#Software-Configuration-Management)
    - [Software requirements](#Software-requirements)   
    - [Environment Information](#Environment-Information)   
    - [Software Build and Release](#Software-Build-and-Release)   
    - [Software review](#Software-review)   
    - [Documentation](#Documentation)   
    - [Defect Tracking](#Defect-Tracking)    

# File Conversion Path 
- Assembly Files => .s
- Object Files => .o
- Library Files => .a
- Executable => Varies
    - Executable and Linkable Format (ELF)
    - Common Object File Format (COFF)
    - Intel Hex Record
    - Motorola S Record (SREC)
    - ARM Image Format (AIF)




Other files made in the process
- Map files
- Relocatable files
- Locator 
# Preprocessors 
A program that modifies data to conform with the input requirements of another program. 
# Compiler   
A program that converts instructions into a machine code or lower-level form so they can be decode and executed by a computer.
## Assembler  
---
A program for converting instructions written in low level code into machine code 
## Linker   
---
Program that takes one or more object files generated by a compiler and combines them into one, executable program.  

There are two steps to linking: linking and locating which is the last phase of the build process.  
The linker file is responsible for telling the locator how to map the executable into the proper addresses.

```
gcc main.c -o main.out
gcc <other-options-here> -Xlinker -T Xlinker mk125z_lnk.ld
gcc main.c -o main.out -W1, -T, linker_file.lds

// input with -l and -L option to include libraries
// auto link of standard libraries -nostdlib flags
```

Linker include scripts that
- Assign code section to memory region map
- Start and sizes of memory regions
- Access attributes of memory regions
- Report checking for over-allocation
- Entry points of the program


The linker must know the name and path to the libary to link with. Static and dynamic libraries get linked at different point. Static libraries will get linked at compile time and dynamic libraries will be linked at run time. Entry and exit points from main are included in standard library that is automatically included by the linker.  

After linking happens a relocatable file is created. And the locator works with that information.
- After locating, symbols are removed and direct addresses get assigned into the object code.
- Locator file provides information where the physical memory regions of the processor interface with the defined code regions

Example of Code Sections to Region Map   
| Memory Regions | Code/Data Sections |      Entry Points     |
|:--------------:|:------------------:|:---------------------:|
|    RAM/SRAM    |        .bss        | ENTRY (Reset_Handler) |
|  FLASH (MAIN)  |        .data       |                       |
|     EEPROM     |        .text       |                       |
|     VECTORS    |    .isr_vectors    |                       |
|   BOOTLOADER   |        .heap       |                       |  
** After memory regions are written then they become read only files for security reasons
# Debug  
The process of identifying and removing errors from computer hardware or software. 
# Tests   
There are different types of tests that can be done to make sure the program will hold up in the given condition.  

Types:
- Unit Testing
    - Focuses on the smallest unit
- Integration Testing
    - Testing a group of components together
    - Types
        - Top Down
        - Bottom Up
        - Sandwich
        - Big Bang
- Regression Testing
    - Make sure the component works as a whole properly
- Smoke Testing
    - Makes sure software is ready for further testing
- Alpha Testing
    - Validation Testing
- Beta Testing
    - User end performance
- System Testing
    - Test cross platform performance
- Stress Testing
    - Test unfavorable conditions to the systems
- Performance Testing
    - Test runtime performance

# Install   

Installer tool sends executable to on board programmer. No external hardware needed.

# Other Aspects of Work Flow
## Software Configuration Management
---
- Manage build enviroment
- Tested and tracked
- How you access and make changes to the code

## Software requirements  
---  

The software requirements are description of features and functionalities of the target systems.
   
## Environment Information  
---   
The enviroment information is a document that holds static variables.

## Software Build and Release  
---   
   
Software Build and Release refers to the specialized subfield of system administration that focuses on the process of building software from source code for the purpose of (initially) testing and (ultimately) releasing and distributing the software.

## Software review  
---   

A process or meeting during which a software product is examined by a project personnel, managers, users, customers, user representatives, or other interested parties for comment or approval

## Documentation  
---  

Software documentation is written text or illustration that accompanies computer software or is embedded in the source code
   
## Defect Tracking  
---   

The process of tracking the logged defects in a product from beginning to closure (by inspection, testing, or recording feedback from customers), and making new versions of the product that fix the defects